Add introduction and conclusion sections (#16)
11michalis11/ED-EMS-game-paper: sections/introduction/main.tex

\section{Introduction}

> A huge issue for ambulances in the United Kingdom is that they stay 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An important issue for ambulances in the United Kingdom is that they stay 
```

> parked outside hospitals for a huge amount of time. 

Reviewer: I feel a reviewer might ask for some sort of evidence of this. What would be great would be a reference in a journal where they analysed waiting of parked ambulances. If we cannot find that, let us put in one of the many news articles.

This is a problem for the ambulance service, since the longer ambulances are
blocked in the hospital's parking space the longer the patients in them will
have to wait to receive their treatment but also the longer future patients 
will be stuck waiting for an ambulance.
This paper aims to describe a game theoretic model informed by an underlying 
queueing model motivated by this scenario.

Emergency departments (EDs) are constantly under a lot of pressure to meet 

> targets and satisfy regulations \cite{EmergencyDepartmentWinterPressures}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
targets and satisfy regulations~\cite{EmergencyDepartmentWinterPressures}.
```

This creates a space that won't be broken at a line. So you will never get a new line that just started with a reference.

There are various news reports that indicate that this is in fact an ongoing 
issue that affects both the patients and the emergency medical services (EMS).
Due to this blockage patients may spend a considerable amount of time in the 
back of an ambulance waiting to be dispatched to the ED.

> Examples of such reports are \cite{mirror}, \cite{thenews} and \cite{bmj} where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples of such reports are \cite{mirror, thenews, bmj} where
```

Author: I did not know you can do this. Nice 👍

the impact that this issue has on patients is shown. 
Furthermore, this is also a huge issue for the EMS.
By blocking the ambulances at the hospital's parking space, valuable time is 
wasted where ambulances could be attending new patients \cite{eastanglia}.

> In the past a number of papers have been published that touch upon the use of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A number of papers have been published that touch upon the use of 
```

queueing models together with game theoretic concepts.

> In \cite{FirmCompetition} the authors study a simultaneous price competition 

Reviewer: This reference seems out of place as is. In the sentence above you mention how a number of papers are at the intersection of queueing models and game theory. Is this one of them?

Author: Yes, this is one of them. Should I expand more on the queueing part?

Reviewer: Yes I think so, as is what you have written is a description of any paper where there are two players in it.

Author: Yep, I see what you are saying.

between two firms and calculate the Nash equilibrium both for identical and 
heterogeneous firms. 
The authors have also extended their model in \cite{FirmCompetition2} by 
allowing the players (firms) to choose capacities. 
A main result from this paper was that equilibria, where both firms operate
together, are not socially optimal while when both firms operate as a monopoly 
they are.
Another extension of \cite{FirmCompetition} was introduced in 
\cite{FirmCompetitionExtension} where a long-run version of the competition was 
considered that also had capacity as a decision variable.
In \cite{knight2017measuring} a normal form game is built that is informed by a 
two-dimensional Markov chain in order to model interactions between critical
care units.

> An additional paper that focuses on competition is \cite{fan2009short} where

Reviewer: The link to queues is not clear here.

Author: Similar to the previous comment ☝️. Should I expand on the queueing part of these?

By the way I got most of these from the book `Rational Queueing`

Reviewer: Yup, just need to expand/clarify why the is relevant to queuing.

the authors created a competition between 2 sellers with products having 
different implementation costs.
In \cite{sadat2015can} a healthcare application was studied where patients 
could choose between two hospitals, where a utility function is derived that is

> based on patients' perceived quality of life.

Reviewer: You should add the [PoA](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0377221713003019).

There are also a fair few healthcare ones that I think you've omitted (the ambulance diversion one specifically).

Author: Will do

Another specific part of this research is the construction of a queueing system

> with two tandem queues.

Reviewer: Let us say here what we mean by tandem queues. Arguably your problem is not a tandem queue.

Author: Isn't it kind of a tandem queue though? Can I not label the model as a `network of tandem queues`?

Reviewer: Yup it's absolutely a kind of tandem queue but it's really a tandem buffer with a **single** queue.

Author: Hmmmm. Should I just say that then?

```suggestion
with two tandem buffers.
```

Reviewer: I don't know. I'm not actually sure what the best description of this is as to my knowledge it's the first time this has been done. Perhaps just what it is: `a tandem buffer with a single service centre`?

Author: Sounds good. Will go with that for now then 👍

In \cite{d2015pure} the authors explore threshold joining strategies in a 
Markov model that has two tandem queues.

> Another great example is the one described in \cite{burnetas2013customer}

Reviewer: Tell me about this paper. (No need to respond, just one that I'd like us to discuss.)

Author: `\cite{burnetas2013customer}` This one right?

Reviewer: Yup.

where they investigated a network of multiple tandem queues where customers 
decide which queue to attend before joining.

> Similarly, in \cite{bacsar2002stackelberg} the authors examine a network of 

Reviewer: Same as above, are you sure it's tandem?

Author: That's how the authors define it at the `problem formulation` section of that paper and that's also how `Hassin, R.` introduces it in `Rational Queueing`.

\(N\) tandem M/M/1 queues and with multi-type customers. 
The customers in this paper react to a price \(p\) by picking demand rates that 
maximise utility.
In \cite{veltman2005equilibrium} a profit maximisation problem is studied that
has an M/M/1 queue and a parking service providing complementary service while

> the customer is in service. 

Reviewer: What do they do?

Author: Should I include more details on the methodology that has been used here?

Reviewer: Just a bit but also perhaps the conclusions.

The problem was later extended by \cite{sun2009equilibrium} where they 
considered arrivals of batches that can share the parking service.

> Finally, \cite{afeche2007decentralized} examines a tandem network of two M/M/1 

Reviewer: Same comment as above

Author: Same reply as above 😄

Reviewer: Same reply.

queues that are ran by two different profit-maximising service providers and 
receive three different types of customers.

The EDs in the United Kingdom have to follow some set of regulations imposed to 

> them by the NHS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
them by the National Health Service (NHS).
```

One of these regulations is that 95\% of patients that arrive at the ED should 
be admitted, transferred or discharged within four hours.
This is where gaming behaviour might be observed between the EDs and the EMS.
An assumption of this work is that some managerial decision making is involved

> in choosing when to start blocking ambulances.

Reviewer: `This is similar to~\cite{<that ambulance diversion paper>}...`

This paper touches upon the following new aspects:
\begin{itemize}
    \item The emergence of gaming behaviour between EDs and the EMS.
    \item A queueing model with 2 consecutive waiting spaces where one would 
    serve as a parking space for the ambulances
\end{itemize}
The focus of this research is the construction of a 3-player game theoretic 
model between two queueing systems and a service that distributes individuals
to them. 
The resultant model will then be used to explore the emergent dynamics between 
the three players.

> The model is then applied to the healthcare scenario between two EDs and the 

Reviewer: Highlight how this differs from what's in the literature.

EMS while looking into the inefficiencies that emerge and ways to apply some 

> incentive mechanisms to improve them.

Reviewer: Be a bit louder here about the queueing model.

This paper first gives an overview of the game theoretic model that was built, 
then goes on to describe how the queueing models were constructed and then 
follows with the methodology that was used to build the game.
Finally, there is a section that describes how this game theoretic framework
can be applied at the interface between the EMS and EDs together with some 

> analysis on the behaviour that is observed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This paper first gives an overview of the game theoretic model, 
then goes on to describe a novel queueing model.
Finally, there is a section that describes how this game theoretic framework
can be applied at the interface between the EMS and EDs together with some 
analysis on the behaviour that is observed.
```

Author: Should I not mention the methodology section at all here?

Reviewer: No sorry, you should I removed that by mistake.

and show that for the former a pure NE always exist and for the latter a unique
equilibrium exists where only one firm operates.
The authors have also extended their model in~\cite{FirmCompetition2} by 
allowing the players (firms) to choose capacities. 
A main result from this paper was that equilibria, where both firms operate
together, are not socially optimal while when both firms operate as a monopoly 
they are.
Another extension of~\cite{FirmCompetition} was introduced 
in~\cite{FirmCompetitionExtension} where a long-run version of the competition 
was considered that also had capacity as a decision variable.
In~\cite{knight2017measuring} a normal form game is built that is informed by a 
two-dimensional Markov chain in order to model interactions between critical
care units.
An additional paper that focuses on competition is~\cite{fan2009short} where
the authors created a competition between two sellers where seller 1 supplies 
a product instantly and seller 2 is modelled as a make-to-order M/M/1 queue.
The game that is played requires the two sellers to make a choice on the price 
of the product and then seller 2 to set a capacity that guarantees a maximum 
expected delay.

> In~\cite{sadat2015can} a healthcare application was studied where patients 

Reviewer: Something like:

```
In the above models, the players are attempting to increase 
their share of individuals choosing to queue.
In public healthcare type settings~\cite{knight2013selfish}, 
this is not necessarily the case. Players might not necessarily want and/or need 
to maximise so called `market share' and overall service needs to be considered as 
individuals aim to minimise experience congestion.
```

Author: I will put this before the healthcare applications

could choose between two hospitals, where a utility function is derived that is
based on patients' perceived quality of life.

> In~\cite{knight2013selfish} the impact that individual behaviour has on the 

Reviewer: `How individual behaviour based on congestion impacts the efficiency of public services is investigated in~\cite{knight2013selfish}.`

efficiency of public services is investigated.
The authors place the individuals' choices between different public services 
within the formulation of routing games and measure inefficiencies using a 

> concept known as the price of anarchy (\(PoA\))~\cite{koutsoupias1999worst}.

Reviewer: `\(\text{PoA}\)` otherwise it looks like `P \times o \times A`.

They show that the price of anarchy increases with worth of service and that is
low for systems with insufficient capacities.

> In \cite{deo2011centralized} the authors study the network effect of ambulance 

Reviewer: `In~\cite{...`

The customers in this paper react to a price \(p\) by picking demand rates that 
maximise utility.
In~\cite{veltman2005equilibrium} a profit maximisation problem is studied that
has two servers; an M/M/1 queue and a parking service providing complementary 
service while the customer is in the first service. 
The providers gain a reward when customers complete both services and no reward 
when they finish just one of them.
One of the main conclusions of this study is that by increasing the general 
demand both providers lower their prices to compensate for the increase in wait.
The problem was later extended by~\cite{sun2009equilibrium} where they 
considered arrivals of batches that can share the parking service.
Finally,~\cite{afeche2007decentralized} examines a tandem network of two M/M/1 
queues that are ran by two different profit-maximising service providers.
The network receives three types of customers; those requiring both services, 
customers requiring the first service and customers requiring the second service.
The authors showed that optimal prices also maximise social welfare and that
removing two types of customers that don't need both services leads to higher 

> profit and lower demand rate.

Reviewer: ```
The novelty of the queueing model here is a contribution to 
not only the game theoretic literature but also to the queueing theoretic literature.
To the authors knowledge, no such model of a tandem queueing model controlled 
by a strategic decision has been considered. % TODO Be very sure if this is correct 
```

The game that is played requires the two sellers to make a choice on the price 
of the product and then seller 2 to set a capacity that guarantees a maximum 
expected delay.
In the above models, the players are attempting to increase their share of 
individuals choosing to queue.
In public healthcare type settings~\cite{knight2013selfish}, this is not 
necessarily the case. 
Players might not necessarily aim to maximise the so called `market share'.
Rather, the overall service needs to be considered as players aim to minimise

> the overall congestion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
their experienced congestion.
```

to them. 
The resultant model will then be used to explore the emergent dynamics between 
the three players.
The new thing here is the use of a learning algorithm to get to the Nash 

> equilibrium.

Reviewer: ```
While giving some consideration to equilibrium behaviour similarly to the 
work of~\cite{<a number of the paper you explored above>}`, emergent behaviour 
is more precisely addressed by considering a number of learning algorithms.
```

The model is then applied to the healthcare scenario between two EDs and the 
EMS while looking into the inefficiencies that emerge and ways to apply some 
incentive mechanisms to improve them.
The EDs are modelled as two queueing systems each with a tandem buffer and a 
service centre where their performance measures of the queueing models are then

> used as the utilities of the game.

Reviewer: `service centre. The performance measures ...`

This paper first gives an overview of the game theoretic model, then goes on 
to describe a novel queueing model, and then follows with the methodology that 

> was used to build the game.

Reviewer: ```
and then follows with a number of theoretic results 
pertaining to the performance measures of the queuing model. 
These are used to build the utilities of the game.
```

to them. 
The resultant model will then be used to explore the emergent dynamics between 
the three players.
While giving some consideration to equilibrium behaviour similarly to the 
work of~\cite{FirmCompetition, FirmCompetition2, deo2011centralized, 
veltman2005equilibrium}, emergent behaviour is more precisely addressed by 
considering a number of learning algorithms.
This study explores two new concepts; getting performance measures for a new
queueing theoretic model with a tandem buffer and a single service centre and 
using a learning algorithm to model the emergence of behaviour.
The model is then applied to the healthcare scenario between two EDs and the 
EMS while looking into the inefficiencies that emerge and ways to apply some 
incentive mechanisms to improve them.
The EDs are modelled as two queueing systems each with a tandem buffer and a 
service centre. 
The performance measures are then used as the utilities of the game.
The novelty of the queueing model here is a contribution to not only the game 
theoretic literature but also to the queueing theoretic literature.
To the authors knowledge, no such model of a tandem queueing model controlled 

> by a strategic decision has been considered. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To the authors knowledge, no such model of a tandem queueing model with a pair of parameters for the buffer has been considered.
```

I think?
